I've always loved Austin. It's just a blue city in a red state, although these days that's changing with that Talarico guy. It's hard not to see that the world is completely in flux right now. I guess that's why it can be so grounding to have the kind of night I had at the Britt Festival grounds, watching DUG open up for Shaky Graves and his band. It's just nice to feel like part of a community, to be among people that really just want to enjoy themselves and appreciate the moment.

It was a gorgeous afternoon in the hills of Jacksonville, just blue skies and green hills all around. It was a packed show, and I had some great seats.

For me, the most interesting thing about a show like this is keeping an eye on all the moving parts, and trying to get some sort of a feeling for the amount of behind-the-scenes planning and all the invisible work that goes into such a thing.

This was my second time seeing DUG, and I will certainly be keeping an eye on their career. As a duo, they really feel like the perfect opener. They do a great job of interacting with the crowd — at one point there was line dancing, pitting the left side of the dance floor against the other. All in good fun, of course.

So when Shaky Graves finally took to the stage, the vibe was already off to a nice start. One thing I can say about Shaky Graves is that his entire show and set construction feels very controlled. I mean that in the best possible way, because when you have a production of this size, with multiple tour buses and a bunch of gear, you really don't want to be in the business of managing surprises. So it's just clear how much that attention to detail goes into every show.

So the general dynamic footprint goes like this: the band shows up, they play a handful of band-driven songs, they touch on a few hits, and then Shaky Graves digs in for a pretty long middle section of the set, just stomping away as a solo artist. That part took me by surprise, but also feels very natural in a certain way. Coming from the really performance-driven Nashville scene, it felt clear to me that Shaky wanted to offer his respects to some of the standalone guitar pioneers that stood largely on their own, and in doing so pays homage to a very street-centered busking context.

That distinction was not lost on me. Shaky could easily just hide behind the performance of his band, lean on his decidedly impressive and successful songwriting aesthetic, and leave it be. But no, he wanted to make sure that we understand where he comes from. Of course, the first person I thought of when he started stomping along and digging into his open tunings was Chris Whitley, who is a Texas legend in my book, but there's a whole series of trendsetters standing behind him, from the Stevie Ray Vaughans of the world all the way back to the original, Robert Johnson.

Now, I don't know if Shaky got his start as a busker. I guess in some way, most of us do. But he did drop a little story about the fact that he had come out many years prior to do some Led Zeppelin based cover show — and in a place like Jacksonville, those stories really help. He becomes one of us, he becomes part of the story of the land and of the people.

But of course, many of the happy concertgoers on that beautiful day were just there to shake some tail feathers, which was obvious to me when, after that middle set of blues-driven solo guitar, he brought the band back up for some mid-tempo stuff, and of course people start talking, because they're not quite as driven to the dance floor in those moments. But to me, that's part of the experience — the dance of the dance. It was also clear that that set had been assembled long ago, and there were interludes and little narratives to make even the most detail-oriented of us proud to be there.

Shaky mentioned he's married now, he's got a kid, he brought some in-laws onto the stage. I guess perhaps over the years, the Shaky Graves experience might turn into a family affair. Great.

I think in such an unpredictable world, it's nice to have these brief but powerful respites, when you just kind of feel like you're among the right people, listening to the right music with the right things on your mind. On a gorgeous day like it was, you just didn't have to think too hard about it. The songs were good, the ladies were pretty, the sundresses were out, and the beer was flowing. In Jacksonville, that's about as good as it gets.

Over the years, Shaky has earned his place at the Britt Festival, with a great majority of those fans literally having connections with many of those songs. It's an entirely different equation when you're looking at a venue of that size. The Britt has one of the greatest sound systems that can be bought with money. So for a few hours on a Thursday evening, I was lucky to enjoy the sounds of a band that really has no equal in the current landscape.

I think the power and specificity of Shaky's music will ensure that he remains unique. Somehow, when I think about contemporary comparisons, my mind goes to Noah Kahan — but only if he had a deal with the devil to follow in the steps of Robert Johnson.
